docs/sphinx/formats/jpeg-2000.rst, before:

.. index:: JPEG 2000
.. index:: .jp2

JPEG 2000
===============================================================================

Extensions: .jp2

Developer: `Independent JPEG Group <http://www.ijg.org/>`_


**Support**


BSD-licensed: |yes|

Export: |yes|

Officially Supported Versions: 

Reader: JPEG2000Reader (:bsd-reader:`Source Code <JPEG2000Reader.java>`, :doc:`Supported Metadata Fields </metadata/JPEG2000Reader>`)

Writer: JPEG2000Writer (:bsd-writer:`Source Code <JPEG2000Writer.java>`)

Freely Available Software:

- `JJ2000 (JPEG 2000 library for Java) <https://code.google.com/archive/p/jj2000/>`_


We currently have:

* a JPEG 2000 specification document (free draft from 2000, no longer available online) 
* a few .jp2 files

We would like to have:


**Ratings**


Pixels: |Very good|

Metadata: |Outstanding|

Openness: |Outstanding|

Presence: |Good|

Utility: |Poor|

**Additional Information**


Bio-Formats uses the `JAI Image I/O Tools <https://github.com/jai-imageio/jai-imageio-core>`_ library to read JP2 files. 
JPEG stands for "Joint Photographic Experts Group".

Commit message:

Document conflicting JAI-imageIO issues

docs/sphinx/formats/jpeg-2000.rst, after:

.. index:: JPEG 2000
.. index:: .jp2

JPEG 2000
===============================================================================

Extensions: .jp2

Developer: `Independent JPEG Group <http://www.ijg.org/>`_


**Support**


BSD-licensed: |yes|

Export: |yes|

Officially Supported Versions: 

Reader: JPEG2000Reader (:bsd-reader:`Source Code <JPEG2000Reader.java>`, :doc:`Supported Metadata Fields </metadata/JPEG2000Reader>`)

Writer: JPEG2000Writer (:bsd-writer:`Source Code <JPEG2000Writer.java>`)

Freely Available Software:

- `JJ2000 (JPEG 2000 library for Java) <https://code.google.com/archive/p/jj2000/>`_


We currently have:

* a JPEG 2000 specification document (free draft from 2000, no longer available online) 
* a few .jp2 files

We would like to have:


**Ratings**


Pixels: |Very good|

Metadata: |Outstanding|

Openness: |Outstanding|

Presence: |Good|

Utility: |Poor|

**Additional Information**


Bio-Formats uses the `JAI Image I/O Tools <https://github.com/jai-imageio/jai-imageio-core>`_ library to read JP2 files. 
Conflicting versions of this no-longer maintained library may cause errors, 
see :ref:`JAI ImageIO component <forks-jai>` for details. 

JPEG stands for "Joint Photographic Experts Group".
