docs/sphinx/index.rst, before:

#########################
Bio-Formats Documentation
#########################

The following documentation is split into four parts. :doc:`about/index`
explains the goal of the software, discusses how it processes metadata, and
provides other useful information such as version history and how to report
bugs. :doc:`users/index` focuses on how to use Bio-Formats as a plugin for
ImageJ and Fiji, and also gives details of other software packages which can
use Bio-Formats to read and write microscopy formats.
:doc:`developers/index` covers more indepth information on using
Bio-Formats as a Java library and how to interface from non-Java codes.
Finally, :doc:`formats/index` is a guide to all the file formats currently
supported by Bio-Formats.

- :doc:`about/index`
- :doc:`users/index`
- :doc:`developers/index`
- :doc:`formats/index`

Bio-Formats |release| uses the *June 2016* release of the
:model_doc:`OME Model <>`.
    
**Bio-Formats is a community project and we welcome your input.** You can
find guidance on :doc:`about/bug-reporting`, upload files to our
`QA system <http://qa.openmicroscopy.org.uk/qa/upload/>`_ for testing, and
:community:`contact us <>` via our mailing lists or forums. Further
information about how the OME team works and how you can contribute to our
projects is in the :devs_doc:`Contributing Developer Documentation <>`.


.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :hidden:
 
    about/index
    users/index
    developers/index
    formats/index

Commit message:

Add java 7 reminders & fix downloads

docs/sphinx/index.rst, after:

#########################
Bio-Formats Documentation
#########################

The following documentation is split into four parts. :doc:`about/index`
explains the goal of the software, discusses how it processes metadata, and
provides other useful information such as version history and how to report
bugs. :doc:`users/index` focuses on how to use Bio-Formats as a plugin for
ImageJ and Fiji, and also gives details of other software packages which can
use Bio-Formats to read and write microscopy formats.
:doc:`developers/index` covers more indepth information on using
Bio-Formats as a Java library and how to interface from non-Java codes.
Finally, :doc:`formats/index` is a guide to all the file formats currently
supported by Bio-Formats.

- :doc:`about/index`
- :doc:`users/index`
- :doc:`developers/index`
- :doc:`formats/index`

Bio-Formats |release| requires Java 7 or above and uses the *June 2016*
release of the :model_doc:`OME Model <>`.
    
**Bio-Formats is a community project and we welcome your input.** You can
find guidance on :doc:`about/bug-reporting`, upload files to our
`QA system <http://qa.openmicroscopy.org.uk/qa/upload/>`_ for testing, and
:community:`contact us <>` via our mailing lists or forums. Further
information about how the OME team works and how you can contribute to our
projects is in the :devs_doc:`Contributing Developer Documentation <>`.


.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :hidden:
 
    about/index
    users/index
    developers/index
    formats/index
