docs/sphinx/developers/file-reader.rst, before:

.. _reading_files:

Reading files
=============


Basic file reading
------------------

Bio-Formats provides several methods for retrieving data from files in an
arbitrary (supported) format. These methods fall into three categories: raw
pixels, core metadata, and format-specific metadata. All methods described
here are present and documented in
:javadoc:`loci.formats.IFormatReader <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html>`. In
general, it is recommended that you read files using an instance of
:javadoc:`loci.formats.ImageReader <loci/formats/ImageReader.html>`.
While it is possible to work with readers for a specific format, ImageReader
contains additional logic to automatically detect the format of a file and
delegate subsequent calls to the appropriate reader.

Prior to retrieving pixels or metadata, it is necessary to call
:javadoc:`setId(java.lang.String) <loci/formats/IFormatHandler.html#setId-java.lang.String->`
on the reader instance, passing in the name of the file to read. Some formats
allow multiple series (5D image stacks) per file; in this case you may wish to
call
:javadoc:`setSeries(int)  <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#setSeries-int->` to
change which series is being read.

Raw pixels are always retrieved one plane at a time. Planes are returned
as raw byte arrays, using one of the openBytes methods.

Core metadata is the general term for anything that might be needed to work
with the planes in a file. A list of core metadata fields is given in the
table below together with the appropriate accessor method:

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Core metadata field
    - API method

  * - image width
    - :javadoc:`getSizeX() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getSizeX-->`

  * - image height
    - :javadoc:`getSizeY() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getSizeY-->`

  * - number of series per file
    - :javadoc:`getSeriesCount() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getSeriesCount-->`

  * - total number of images per series
    - :javadoc:`getImageCount() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getImageCount-->`

  * - number of slices in the current series
    - :javadoc:`getSizeZ() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getSizeZ-->`

  * - number of timepoints in the current series
    - :javadoc:`getSizeT() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getSizeT-->`

  * - number of actual channels in the current series
    - :javadoc:`getSizeC() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getSizeC-->`

  * - number of channels per image
    - :javadoc:`getRGBChannelCount() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getRGBChannelCount-->`

  * - the ordering of the images within the current series
    - :javadoc:`getDimensionOrder() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getDimensionOrder-->`

  * - whether each image is RGB
    - :javadoc:`isRGB() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#isRGB-->`

  * - whether the pixel bytes are in little-endian order
    - :javadoc:`isLittleEndian() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#isLittleEndian-->`

  * - whether the channels in an image are interleaved
    - :javadoc:`isInterleaved() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#isInterleaved-->`

  * - the type of pixel data in this file
    - :javadoc:`getPixelType() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getPixelType-->`

All file formats are guaranteed to accurately report core metadata.

Bio-Formats also converts and stores additional information which can be stored and retrieved 
from the OME-XML Metadata. These fields can be accessed in a similar way to the core metadata above.
An example of such values would be the physical size of dimensions X, Y and Z. The accessor methods 
for these properties return a :xml_javadoc:`Length <ome/units/quantity/Length.html>` object which 
contains both the value and unit of the dimension. These lengths can also be converted to other units using 
:xml_javadoc:`value(ome.units.unit.Unit) <ome/units/quantity/Length.html#value-ome.units.unit.Unit->`
An example of reading and converting these physical sizes values can be found in 
:download:`ReadPhysicalSize.java <examples/ReadPhysicalSize.java>`

Format-specific metadata refers to any other data specified in the file - this
includes acquisition and hardware parameters, among other things. This data
is stored internally in a **java.util.Hashtable**, and can be accessed in one
of two ways: individual values can be retrieved by calling
:javadoc:`getMetadataValue(java.lang.String) <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getMetadataValue-java.lang.String->`,
which gets the value of the specified key.
Note that the keys in this Hashtable are different for each format, hence the
name "format-specific metadata".

See :doc:`Bio-Formats metadata processing </about/index>` for more information on the metadata capabilities that Bio-Formats provides.

.. seealso::
  :source:`IFormatReader <components/formats-api/src/loci/formats/IFormatReader.java>`
    Source code of the ``loci.formats.IFormatReader`` interface

File reading extras
-------------------

The previous section described how to read pixels as they are stored in the
file. However, the native format is not necessarily convenient, so
Bio-Formats provides a few extras to make file reading more flexible.

- The :javadoc:`loci.formats.ReaderWrapper <loci/formats/ReaderWrapper.html>`
  API that implements ``loci.formats.IFormatReader`` allows to define
  "wrapper" readers that take a reader in the constructor, and manipulate the
  results somehow, for convenience. Using them is similar to the java.io
  InputStream/OutputStream model: just layer whichever functionality you need
  by nesting the wrappers.

  The table below summarizes a few wrapper readers of interest:

  .. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 25, 75

    * - Wrapper reader
      - Functionality

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.BufferedImageReader <loci/formats/gui/BufferedImageReader.html>`
      - Allows pixel data to be returned as BufferedImages instead of raw byte
        arrays

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.FileStitcher <loci/formats/FileStitcher.html>`
      - Uses advanced pattern matching heuristics to group files that belong
        to the same dataset

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.ChannelSeparator <loci/formats/ChannelSeparator.html>`
      - Makes sure that all planes are grayscale - RGB images are split into 3
        separate grayscale images

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.ChannelMerger <loci/formats/ChannelMerger.html>`
      - Merges grayscale images to RGB if the number of channels is greater
        than 1

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.ChannelFiller <loci/formats/ChannelFiller.html>`
      - Converts indexed color images to RGB images

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.MinMaxCalculator <loci/formats/MinMaxCalculator.html>`
      - Provides an API for retrieving the minimum and maximum pixel values
        for each channel

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.DimensionSwapper <loci/formats/DimensionSwapper.html>`
      - Provides an API for changing the dimension order of a file

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.Memoizer <loci/formats/Memoizer.html>`
      - Caches the state of the reader into a memoization file

- :javadoc:`loci.formats.ImageTools <loci/formats/ImageTools.html>`
  and :javadoc:`loci.formats.gui.AWTImageTools <loci/formats/gui/AWTImageTools.html>`
  provide a number of methods for manipulating BufferedImages and primitive
  type arrays. In particular, there are methods to split and merge channels
  in a BufferedImage/array, as well as converting to a specific data type
  (e.g. convert short data to byte data).

Troubleshooting
---------------

- Importing multi-file formats (Leica LEI, PerkinElmer, FV1000 OIF, ICS, and
  Prairie TIFF, to name a few) can fail if any of the files are renamed.
  There are "best guess" heuristics in these readers, but they are not
  guaranteed to work in general. So please do not rename files in these
  formats.

- If you are working on a Macintosh, make sure that the data and resource
  forks of your image files are stored together. Bio-Formats does not handle
  separated forks (the native QuickTime reader tries, but usually fails).

- Bio-Formats file readers are not thread-safe. If files are read within a
  parallelized environment, a new reader must be fully initialized in each
  parallel session. See :ref:`reader_performance` about ways to improve file
  reading performance in multi-threaded mode.

Commit message:

Link to OrthogonalReader example from file reading doc page

docs/sphinx/developers/file-reader.rst, after:

.. _reading_files:

Reading files
=============


Basic file reading
------------------

Bio-Formats provides several methods for retrieving data from files in an
arbitrary (supported) format. These methods fall into three categories: raw
pixels, core metadata, and format-specific metadata. All methods described
here are present and documented in
:javadoc:`loci.formats.IFormatReader <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html>`. In
general, it is recommended that you read files using an instance of
:javadoc:`loci.formats.ImageReader <loci/formats/ImageReader.html>`.
While it is possible to work with readers for a specific format, ImageReader
contains additional logic to automatically detect the format of a file and
delegate subsequent calls to the appropriate reader.

Prior to retrieving pixels or metadata, it is necessary to call
:javadoc:`setId(java.lang.String) <loci/formats/IFormatHandler.html#setId-java.lang.String->`
on the reader instance, passing in the name of the file to read. Some formats
allow multiple series (5D image stacks) per file; in this case you may wish to
call
:javadoc:`setSeries(int)  <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#setSeries-int->` to
change which series is being read.

Raw pixels are always retrieved one plane at a time. Planes are returned
as raw byte arrays, using one of the openBytes methods.

Core metadata is the general term for anything that might be needed to work
with the planes in a file. A list of core metadata fields is given in the
table below together with the appropriate accessor method:

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Core metadata field
    - API method

  * - image width
    - :javadoc:`getSizeX() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getSizeX-->`

  * - image height
    - :javadoc:`getSizeY() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getSizeY-->`

  * - number of series per file
    - :javadoc:`getSeriesCount() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getSeriesCount-->`

  * - total number of images per series
    - :javadoc:`getImageCount() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getImageCount-->`

  * - number of slices in the current series
    - :javadoc:`getSizeZ() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getSizeZ-->`

  * - number of timepoints in the current series
    - :javadoc:`getSizeT() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getSizeT-->`

  * - number of actual channels in the current series
    - :javadoc:`getSizeC() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getSizeC-->`

  * - number of channels per image
    - :javadoc:`getRGBChannelCount() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getRGBChannelCount-->`

  * - the ordering of the images within the current series
    - :javadoc:`getDimensionOrder() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getDimensionOrder-->`

  * - whether each image is RGB
    - :javadoc:`isRGB() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#isRGB-->`

  * - whether the pixel bytes are in little-endian order
    - :javadoc:`isLittleEndian() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#isLittleEndian-->`

  * - whether the channels in an image are interleaved
    - :javadoc:`isInterleaved() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#isInterleaved-->`

  * - the type of pixel data in this file
    - :javadoc:`getPixelType() <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getPixelType-->`

All file formats are guaranteed to accurately report core metadata.

Bio-Formats also converts and stores additional information which can be stored and retrieved 
from the OME-XML Metadata. These fields can be accessed in a similar way to the core metadata above.
An example of such values would be the physical size of dimensions X, Y and Z. The accessor methods 
for these properties return a :xml_javadoc:`Length <ome/units/quantity/Length.html>` object which 
contains both the value and unit of the dimension. These lengths can also be converted to other units using 
:xml_javadoc:`value(ome.units.unit.Unit) <ome/units/quantity/Length.html#value-ome.units.unit.Unit->`
An example of reading and converting these physical sizes values can be found in 
:download:`ReadPhysicalSize.java <examples/ReadPhysicalSize.java>`

Format-specific metadata refers to any other data specified in the file - this
includes acquisition and hardware parameters, among other things. This data
is stored internally in a **java.util.Hashtable**, and can be accessed in one
of two ways: individual values can be retrieved by calling
:javadoc:`getMetadataValue(java.lang.String) <loci/formats/IFormatReader.html#getMetadataValue-java.lang.String->`,
which gets the value of the specified key.
Note that the keys in this Hashtable are different for each format, hence the
name "format-specific metadata".

See :doc:`Bio-Formats metadata processing </about/index>` for more information on the metadata capabilities that Bio-Formats provides.

.. seealso::
  :source:`IFormatReader <components/formats-api/src/loci/formats/IFormatReader.java>`
    Source code of the ``loci.formats.IFormatReader`` interface
  :download:`OrthogonalReader.java <examples/OrthogonalReader.java>`
    Example of reading XY, XZ, and YZ image planes from a file

File reading extras
-------------------

The previous section described how to read pixels as they are stored in the
file. However, the native format is not necessarily convenient, so
Bio-Formats provides a few extras to make file reading more flexible.

- The :javadoc:`loci.formats.ReaderWrapper <loci/formats/ReaderWrapper.html>`
  API that implements ``loci.formats.IFormatReader`` allows to define
  "wrapper" readers that take a reader in the constructor, and manipulate the
  results somehow, for convenience. Using them is similar to the java.io
  InputStream/OutputStream model: just layer whichever functionality you need
  by nesting the wrappers.

  The table below summarizes a few wrapper readers of interest:

  .. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 25, 75

    * - Wrapper reader
      - Functionality

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.BufferedImageReader <loci/formats/gui/BufferedImageReader.html>`
      - Allows pixel data to be returned as BufferedImages instead of raw byte
        arrays

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.FileStitcher <loci/formats/FileStitcher.html>`
      - Uses advanced pattern matching heuristics to group files that belong
        to the same dataset

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.ChannelSeparator <loci/formats/ChannelSeparator.html>`
      - Makes sure that all planes are grayscale - RGB images are split into 3
        separate grayscale images

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.ChannelMerger <loci/formats/ChannelMerger.html>`
      - Merges grayscale images to RGB if the number of channels is greater
        than 1

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.ChannelFiller <loci/formats/ChannelFiller.html>`
      - Converts indexed color images to RGB images

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.MinMaxCalculator <loci/formats/MinMaxCalculator.html>`
      - Provides an API for retrieving the minimum and maximum pixel values
        for each channel

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.DimensionSwapper <loci/formats/DimensionSwapper.html>`
      - Provides an API for changing the dimension order of a file

    * - :javadoc:`loci.formats.Memoizer <loci/formats/Memoizer.html>`
      - Caches the state of the reader into a memoization file

- :javadoc:`loci.formats.ImageTools <loci/formats/ImageTools.html>`
  and :javadoc:`loci.formats.gui.AWTImageTools <loci/formats/gui/AWTImageTools.html>`
  provide a number of methods for manipulating BufferedImages and primitive
  type arrays. In particular, there are methods to split and merge channels
  in a BufferedImage/array, as well as converting to a specific data type
  (e.g. convert short data to byte data).

Troubleshooting
---------------

- Importing multi-file formats (Leica LEI, PerkinElmer, FV1000 OIF, ICS, and
  Prairie TIFF, to name a few) can fail if any of the files are renamed.
  There are "best guess" heuristics in these readers, but they are not
  guaranteed to work in general. So please do not rename files in these
  formats.

- If you are working on a Macintosh, make sure that the data and resource
  forks of your image files are stored together. Bio-Formats does not handle
  separated forks (the native QuickTime reader tries, but usually fails).

- Bio-Formats file readers are not thread-safe. If files are read within a
  parallelized environment, a new reader must be fully initialized in each
  parallel session. See :ref:`reader_performance` about ways to improve file
  reading performance in multi-threaded mode.
